---
title: Random thoughts for January 31st, 2012
slug: my-first-post
time: 05:37:52
---
I've been sitting here for 2 hours waiting for this WoW patch to apply and it allowed me to actually focus on learning a bit. No no not the PHP5 certification studying that I've been putting off for about 8 months, but actual fun learning.

Jason Grigsby (@grigs) <a href="https://twitter.com/#!/grigs/status/164554171062829057" target="_blank">reminded me</a> of an article of his that I read awhile ago. This article brings up some ideas about Mobile Phones being a new form of media that has it's own unique capabilities. I think this was one of the first articles I read about Mobile Context.  I remember first reading this (or somehow finding my way there anyways) right after <a href="http://futurefriend.ly/" target="_blank">Future Friendly</a> launched. I do like that the majority of the Future Friendly "gang" are rather active on Twitter and also have blogs posts, it really feels like they're taking a lead with this.

I keep finding that what I like about twitter is that if someone says something interesting you can talk to them. It's like being in a room filled with millions of people, but with a massive filter on, that you can lift if you choose.

Anyways, I was thinking the other day "wouldn't it be great if a website just 'knew' what you wanted out of it based on what you were up to?"  Google recently changed so that they weren't tracking you based on your demographic and whatever. A couple months ago, Google had a page that said what they thought I was interested in. It was 100% right. I thought that was awesome. They also changed the search results based on what I liked. I thought that was awesome. Get me the content I WANT quicker. Apparently I was the only one as privacy watchdogs (or somebody, I don't actually know who, so I'm gonna point my unguided finger at them) didn't like it and it had to be removed. I thought this was basically removing a huge piece of functionality from a great product. It knew what I wanted, so it gave it to me. Ya ya, we can argue "but google only wanted to increase revenue evil evil evil evil evil". But....it gave me what I wanted....

Now, imagine if you would a website (let's say a News website) that "knows" what you want to do while you're there. It detects that you're on a phone and haven't moved too much in 1/2 an hour. It figures that you have a pretty good attention span because of this. It shows you one version of the site. With more information on topics and more info and related article links, etc.

K, next one, imagine that you are standing in line at the Grocery Store and read about a news topic on one of the newspapers (let's say "Celebrity A has wed Celebrity B"...AND YOU DIDN'T KNOW ABOUT IT!...the horror). Your phone would know that you've been moving a lot, and then moving very little for 3 minutes, so less attention span, but should have enough for a couple minutes. Don't bother displaying the related article links, since it knows you won't have a chance to get to them. And since you don't have time to read a long article, summarize that. A couple paragraphs with just the overall story. It would also know that you could be distracted at a moments notice so it offers a "read full article later" option.

I'm sure we could argue these couple things as one being desktop site and the other being mobile site, but I don't want to click through stuff to get to there. I just want it to happen for me without me thinking about it.  Who am I, what am I up to.

What learning have I done? Lots. I'm trying to figure out how to get some Future Friendly ideas into our team's major client. They've been receptive to Responsive Web Design, and I do feel that it's the right way to go with their site. I'm also trying to get their content stored OUT of the site. All of their content is locked down in HTML in a database. We can kid ourselves and claim that that is able to be moved anywhere, but it's in HTML. I've started playing around with a Content API in my spare time that would allow you to send in data in HTML and then it would strip it and change it to markdown. You could then call that data in a certain format for any device. Imagine grabbing something nicely formatted for an iOS app that's the exact same content on their website (NPR gave me the idea). I really think that Markdown is the way to go. We can pretend that HTML is what we'll be using on the web in 50 years, but we won't know that until 50 years from now.

And no, I don't have a summary thought.
